---
layout: post
author: Nancy Wang
---
Now that my roommate’s gotten back to a healthy sleep schedule (guess who still
hasn’t) I’ve decided maybe it is a better idea to record my disjointed thoughts
here rather than bother said roomie during the late late hours of the night.

I’ve been thinking a lot lately about the impact we have on this world. Because
we’re each one person out of over seven billion. Which means each thought I
have is one of seven billion thoughts and each action I take is one of seven
billion actions in any given moment. I’ve always wondered if there was someone
out there in the world who had the same thought at the same time as me– have
you ever thought about how similar our thoughts really are?

It strikes me that even with so many people in this world, it is often by
chance and serendipity, fate, circumstance that we enter and exit people’s
lives at seemingly insignificant moments, only to look back and realize the
importance later. Or maybe we’ll never know that impact. Life is full of such
endless probabilities and it is nearly impossible to measure how each
probability led to another, and to another, and to another. For example, today.
Today is the day high school seniors find out if they got accepted to Hopkins
or not. I didn’t really think about the meaning too much– Hopkins is just one
college of like, what, a million?– but then again this day meant so much. Think
about the probabilities: the probability Hopkins accepted me, the probability
Hopkins accepted the other wonderful wonderful people that make up my grade and
this school, the probability I chose to come here, the probability others chose
to come here, the probability I met some of these wonderful people, even the
probability I was able to come here at all, be raised in the family I was, be
fortunate to live in a developed country teeming with opportunity, to breathe
and live with no limit to the height of my dreams.

My math teachers always have defined probability as a measure of chance. I
think about these probabilities a lot because for many people, these
probabilities are fractions of mine. I realize many probabilities are dependent
of one another. If the birth of life all started from one branch of a tree
diagram, I think it’s important to remain cognizant of how each branch leads to
another. Like how college leads to a job. And how every person on this planet
might be on a different branch on the tree diagram, or how the branches may be
arranged differently for each person. What would happen if I didn’t go to
college? If I didn’t finish high school? If I wasn’t born into a middle class
family? The more I strip away at the layers of my tree diagram the more
privileges I see that I am more than fortunate to have.

So I guess all I have left to say is thank you. To all my probabilities, my
chances, my opportunities.